USACO is a very prestigious competition, it has 4 rounds each year:January, February, March(US Open, the hardest one in every year), December.
It includes 5 levels: 
1.Bronze--Beginner level, mostly about basic knowledge and basic algorithms & data structures. Everyone starts from Bronze as soon as you have an account.
2.Silver--Intermediate level(Yes, silver is an intermediate level because Gold/Platinum are really hard.) This level is going to involve some harder skills
like Dynamic Planning, Tree, Map algorithms. This level is around top 15% among USACO participants. 
3.Gold--Intermediate to Advanced, this part require students to know many complicated knowledge and time management strategies as well as debugging skills.
(Around top 7% among USACO participants, it is a very useful material in college app! Many top CS programs like UCLA, GTech, UW-Seattle value this)
4.Platinum--Advanced, this level require students to be proficient at various contest skills and know to combine different algorithms at the same with 
the least Time Complexity* and Space Complexity*(Explanation below) Only around 3% of participants can reach this level, it requires hard work and talent as well.
If you can reach platinum, you are even capable of being considered by MIt/Stanford.
5.Finalists--Genius Level, each year only around 25 students out of over 10000+ participants can be finalists.(They usually go to top 10 schools in the US)

How to level up:
Everyone starts from Bronze, each contest has 4 days of open time, you can participate in the competiton during the 4 days. Each contest has 3 problems, total points 
out of 1000, each question is worth 1000/3 points.(Reminder: They may not be ranked in difficulty, sometimes the last may be the easiest.)
After you finished the competition, after around 1 week, you can log in USACO again to check your level, but if got a perfect score, like 950+/1000, you 
would level up immediately. 

How much does it cost:
Totally free, just log in and do the questions, but you can not stop the timer of the contest, you can attend any contest when they are open, but only in your level,
you can not take competitions in higher/lower levels.
(Reminder:REMEMBER your USERNAME, it can not be changed, but you can change the email at any time).

How to earn points in the contest:
You should code on your local IDEs, and upload the files to submit, after you submit, you will see the results but not the scores.
Each problem often has 10-20 test cases, the results will be showed in squares, there are generally 2 results:
1.Green sqaure with a "*", which means you passed this testcase, and you will earn some points from this test case.
2.Not passed, like WA:wrong answers, TLE:time limit exceeded, RE:runtime error. You can earn earn points for this test case.
